# WORK IN PROGRESS !!!!!!!

<hr/>

# d3carto

`d3carto` is an R package for thematic mapping. As its name suggests, it's an htmlwidget based on the [d3.js](https://d3js.org/) ecosystem ported by Mike Bostock. The package can be used to create a wide range of interactive, zoomable vector maps, taking advantage of d3's many features: proprtional symbols, pictograms, typologies, choropleth maps, Spikes, tiles, Droing cartograms, etc. It can also be used to create pretty static vectorial maps in svg format, suitable for editorial cartography.  

# Principles

- The `d3carto` package is an R implementation of the `geoviz` JavaScript library via a htmlwidget. Its development follows the evolution of the library. The parameter names are the same. You can therefore refer to the geoviz documentation [here](https://riatelab.github.io/geoviz/). Therefore, d3carto is not intended to compete with other mapping packages in R, such as [mapsf](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/mapsf/index.html) or [tmap](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/tmap/index.html).

- Since it's based on d3.js, the philosophy behind this package is completely different. Map parameters use svg attributes rather than the usual R parameters. Thus, `strokeWidth` is used rather than `lwd`, `fill` rather than `col`, `stroke` rather than `border`, etc.

- d3carto is not designed to handle voluminous datasets. It is suitable for light, generalized basemaps. 

- d3carto is designed to work with geographic data in wgs84 (not projected). Geometries are then projected on the fly using the `create()` function. Unlike other R packages based on `sf`, the projections used come from the d3.js ecosystem (d3-geo, d3-geo-projection & d3-geo-polygon).

- Maps generated by d3carto are zoomable.  Two types of zoom are available. The classic type (pan and zoom) and the “versor” type for creating interactive globes.

- Maps created with d3carto are interactive. It is therefore possible to create tooltips to access information contained in geographic objects.

- Many different types of card are available. The types can be combined with each other and are highly customizable. 



# Install

``` r
install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("neocarto/d3carto")
```

## Syntax

There are several steps involved in creating a map. First, create the map container using the create() function. This is where you define the projection, margins, background color, etc. - in short, all the general parameters of the map. The next step is to add layers one after the other. Various functions are available for this purpose. We'll see them later. The render() function then displays the result. The various functions can be chained together with a pipe (|>)

# Usage

``` r
create() |>
  outline() |>
  graticule(step = 60, stroke = "white") |>
  path(datum = world, fill = "white", fillOpacity = 0.3) |>
  prop(data = world, var = "pop", fill = "red", tip = T) |>
  render()
```
# Vignette

xxx
